# Change log

All notable changes to the LaunchDarkly client-side JavaScript SDK will be documented in this file.
This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org).

## [2.7.0] - 2018-09-19
### Added:
- New client method `waitForInitialization` returns a Promise, like `waitUntilReady`; but while `waitUntilReady` will be resolved as soon as client initialization either succeeds or fails, `waitForInitialization` will be resolved only if initialization succeeds, and will be rejected (with an error object) if it fails.
- New config option `fetchGoals` (default: true) allows you to control whether the client will request A/B testing parameters from LaunchDarkly. If you do not use A/B testing, you may wish to disable this to reduce the number of HTTP requests.
- New config option `sendLDHeaders` (default: true) allows you to control whether the client will add a custom header to LaunchDarkly HTTP requests (to indicate the SDK version). You may wish to disable this behavior if you have performance concerns, as it causes browsers to make an additional CORS preflight check (since it is no longer a [simple request](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)).

## [2.6.0] - 2018-09-07
### Added:
- The new configuration option `evaluationReasons` causes LaunchDarkly to report information about how each feature flag value was determined; you can access this information with the new client method `variationDetail`. The new method returns an object that contains both the flag value and a "reason" object which will tell you, for instance, if the user was individually targeted for the flag or was matched by one of the flag's rules, or if the flag returned the default value due to an error.

### Changed:
- In streaming mode, the client will attempt to reconnect if it receives an HTTP error status from LaunchDarkly. Previously, it would only retry if the connection was lost.

## [2.5.0] - 2018-08-27
### Changed:
- Starting in version 2.0.0, there was a problem where analytics events would not be generated correctly if you initialized the client with bootstrap data, because the bootstrap data did not include some flag metadata that the front end uses for events. The client now supports an extended format for bootstrap data that fixes this problem; this is generated by calling a new method that has been added to the server-side SDKs, `allFlagsState`/`all_flags_state` (previously `allFlags`/`all_flags`). Therefore, if you want analytics event data and you are using bootstrap data from the back end, you should upgrade both your JavaScript SDK and your server-side SDK, and use `allFlagsState` on the back end. This does not require any changes in your JavaScript code. If you use bootstrap data in the old format, the SDK will still be usable but events will not work correctly.
- When posting events to LaunchDarkly, if a request fails, it will be retried once.
- The TypeScript mappings for the SDK were omitted from the distribution in the previous release. They are now in the distribution again, in the root folder instead of in `src`, and have been renamed from `index.d.ts` to `typings.d.ts`.

## [2.4.1] - 2018-08-14
### Fixed:
- The result value of `identify()` (provided by either a promise or a callback, once the flag values for the new user have been retrieved) used to be a simple map of flag keys to values, until it was accidentally changed to an internal data structure in version 2.0.0. It is now a map of flag keys to values again, consistent with what is returned by `allFlags()`.
- Added TypeScript definitions for the result values of `identify()`. (Thanks, [1999](https://github.com/launchdarkly/js-client/pull/102)!)
- Documented all optional compatibility polyfills in `README.md`.

## [2.4.0] - 2018-07-12
### Added:
- Named exports for the `initialize` method and `version` number exports.

### Deprecated:
- Default exports, use named exports instead.

### Changed:
- Updated `package.json` to only export minified files.

## [2.3.1] - 2018-06-29
### Fixed:
- If a polling request has failed due to an invalid environment key, calling `variation` now returns the default value; previously, it sometimes caused a null reference error.

## [2.3.0] - 2018-06-26
### Changed:
- The client will now stop trying to send analytics events if it receives almost any HTTP 4xx error from LaunchDarkly; such errors indicate either a configuration problem (invalid SDK key) or a bug, which is not likely to resolve without a restart or an upgrade. This does not apply if the error is 400, 408, or 429.

## [2.2.0] - 2018-06-22
### Added:
- New event `goalsReady` (and new method `waitUntilGoalsReady`, which returns a Promise based on that event) indicates when the client has loaded goals-- i.e. when it is possible for pageview events and click events to be triggered.

### Fixed:
- Fixed a bug where calling `variation` would throw an error if the client was bootstrapped from local storage and there were no flags in local storage yet, and the initial HTTP request for flags from LaunchDarkly had not yet completed. (thanks, [mpcowan](https://github.com/launchdarkly/js-client/pull/97)!)

## [2.1.2] - 2018-06-08
### Fixed:
- Fix the TypeScript definitions to properly support the ES default export.

## [2.1.1] - 2018-06-05
### Fixed:
- Removed two function calls that are not supported in Internet Explorer: `string.startsWith()` and `Object.assign()`.

## [2.1.0] - 2018-05-31
### Added:
- The client now sends the current SDK version to LaunchDarkly in an HTTP header. This information will be visible in a future version of the LaunchDarkly UI.

### Fixed:
- Fixed a bug that caused summary events to combine the counts for flag evaluations that produced the flag's first variation (variation index 0) with the counts for flag evaluations that fell through to the default value.

## [2.0.0] - 2018-05-25
### Changed
- To reduce the network bandwidth used for analytics events, feature request events are now sent as counters rather than individual events, and user details are now sent only at intervals rather than in each event. These behaviors can be modified through the LaunchDarkly UI and with the new configuration option `inlineUsersInEvents`. For more details, see [Analytics Data Stream Reference](https://docs.launchdarkly.com/v2.0/docs/analytics-data-stream-reference).
- In every function that takes an optional callback parameter, if you provide a callback, the function will not return a promise; a promise will be returned only if you omit the callback. Previously, it would always return a promise which would be resolved/rejected at the same time that the callback (if any) was called; this caused problems if you had not registered an error handler for the promise.
- When sending analytics events, if there is a connection error or an HTTP 5xx response, the client will try to send the events again one more time after a one-second delay.
- Analytics are now sent with an HTTP `POST` request if the browser supports CORS, or via image loading if it does not. Previously, they were always sent via image loading.

### Added
- The new configuration option `sendEventsOnlyForVariation`, if set to `true`, causes analytics events for feature flags to be sent only when you call `variation`. Otherwise, the default behavior is to also send events when you call `allFlags`, and whenever a changed flag value is detected in streaming mode.
- The new configuration option `allowFrequentDuplicateEvents`, if set to `true`, turns off throttling for feature flag events. Otherwise, the default behavior is to block the sending of an analytics event if another event with the same flag key, flag value, and user key was generated within the last five minutes.

### Fixed
- If `identify` is called with a null user, or a user with no key, the function no longer tries to do an HTTP request to the server (which would always fail); instead, it just returns an error.

### Deprecated
- The configuration options `all_attributes_private` and `private_attribute_names` are deprecated. Use `allAttributesPrivate` and `privateAttributeNames` instead.

## [1.7.4] - 2018-05-23
### Fixed
- Fixed a bug that caused events _not_ to be sent if `options.sendEvents` was explicitly set to `true`.
- HTTP requests will no longer fail if there is a `charset` specified in the response's `Content-Type` header. ([#87](https://github.com/launchdarkly/js-client/issues/87))

## [1.7.3] - 2018-05-08
### Fixed
- The client no longer creates an empty `XMLHttpRequest` at startup time (which could interfere with unit tests).

## [1.7.2] - 2018-05-07
_This release was broken and should not be used._

## [1.7.1] - 2018-05-07
_This release was broken and should not be used._

## [1.7.0] - 2018-04-27
### Changed
- The build now uses Rollup, Babel and Jest.
### Fixed
- Fixed a bug that caused a syntax error when running in Internet Explorer 11.
- Fixed an IE 11 incompatibility in the example page index.html.
- Fixed a bug that caused the SDK to send events on beforeunload even if it should not send events.


## [1.6.2] - 2018-04-05

### Fixed

* `LDClient.track` properly sets the user for custom events.

## [1.6.1] - 2018-03-30

### Fixed

* The SDK now polls the URL for changes if (and only if) there are page view goals,to ensure it is accurately reporting page views.

## [1.6.0] - 2018-03-28

### Changed

* Added support for a future update to LaunchDarkly that will deliver individual feature flag changes over the streaming connection as they occur, rather than requiring the client to re-request all flags for each change.

## [1.5.2] - 2018-03-28

### Added

* The new flush method on the client object tells the client to deliver any stored analytics events as soon as possible, rather than waiting for the regularly scheduled event-flushing interval.
  ### Fixed
* Fixed a bug that could prevent events from being generated for page view goals.

## [1.5.1] - 2018-03-07

### Fixed

* Removed usage of the `const` keyword, to maintain IE10 compatibility. (Thanks, [turnerniles](https://github.com/launchdarkly/js-client/pull/68)!)

## [1.5.0] - 2018-03-05

### Added

* The `options` object now supports a `samplingInterval` property. If greater than zero, this causes a fraction of analytics events to be sent to LaunchDarkly: one per that number of events (pseudo-randomly). For instance, setting it to 5 would cause 20% of events to be sent on average.

## [1.4.0] - 2018-02-07

### Added

* The SDK now supports multiple environments. Calling `initialize` returns a new client each time.
  ### Fixed
* The `waitUntilReady` `Promise` will now resolve even after the `ready` event was emitted — thanks @rmanalan!

## [1.3.1] - 2018-01-23

### Fixed

* Methods that expose a `Promise` interface now properly return the resolution or rejection value to the caller.

## [1.3.0] - 2018-01-22

### Added

* Support for [private user attributes](https://docs.launchdarkly.com/docs/private-user-attributes).
* New `sendEvents` option to control whether the SDK should send events back to LaunchDarkly or not. Defaults to `true`.
* It is now possible to wait for SDK readiness using `waitUntilReady` which returns a `Promise`. `identify` also returns a `Promise` (while still supporting the callback argument), which should make
  it easier to integrate into code that relies heavily on `Promise`'s for asynchronous code.
  ### Changed
* The SDK now respects the user's [do-not-track setting](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Navigator/doNotTrack)

## [1.2.0] - 2017-12-15

### Added

* Added `useReport` initialization option to use `REPORT` instead of `GET` when communicating with LaunchDarkly.
  ### Fixed
* Authentication errors will now be logged — the root cause for these errors is usually an invalid
  client-side ID.

## [1.1.13] - 2017-12-12

### Changed

* Emit an `error` event — separately from the `ready` event — in case fetching initial data fails. This allows consumers to respond accordingly.

## [1.1.12] - 2017-06-09

### Changed

* Improve error handling

## [1.1.11] - 2017-05-16

### Added

* Add typescript definitions

## [1.1.10] - 2017-05-04

### Added

* Add a warning when tracking unknown custom goal events

## [1.1.9] - 2017-04-07

### Fixed

* Changed default stream url

## [1.1.8] - 2017-02-02

### Fixed

* Cached `localStorage` copy is not overwritten anymore when connection to LD
  fails

## [1.1.7] - 2017-01-27

### Changed

* `onDone` argument to `identify` method is now optional

## [1.1.6] - 2017-01-16

### Changed

* Removed dependency on Sizzle and direct to polyfill for older browser support

## [1.1.5] - 2016-12-07

### Changed

* Fix bug in `Emitter.off()`

## [1.1.4] - 2016-10-26

### Changed

* Fix bug caused by accessing `undefined` flags

## [1.1.3] - 2016-10-14

### Changed

* Fix bug caused by accessing `undefined` settings

## [1.1.2] - 2016-09-21

### Changed

* Ensure callbacks only ever get called once

## [1.1.1] - 2016-09-20

### Changed

* Fix flag setting request cancellation logic

## [1.1.0] - 2016-09-14

### Added

* Add a new `allFlags` method that returns a map of all feature flag keys and
  their values for a user

## [1.0.8] - 2016-09-09

### Changed

* Added 'undefined' check on VERSION otherwise unbundled usage from npm fails

## [1.0.7] - 2016-09-06

### Changed

* Expose SDK version at `LDClient.version`

## [1.0.6] - 2016-08-23

### Changed

* Added check for EventSource before trying to connect Stream.

## [1.0.5] - 2016-08-22

### Changed

* Fixed an error that occurred on `hashchage`/`popstate` if the account had no
  goals.

## [1.0.4] - 2016-08-12

### Changed

* Added window check for server side rendering compatibility before loading
  Sizzle.
